[LLM] Llama 3.1 serving example (#3780)
skypilot-org/skypilot: llm/llama-3_1/README.md

# Serve Llama 3.1 on Your Own Infrastructure

> ![](https://i.imgur.com/kQGzHI6.png)

Reviewer: Probably want this to have smaller width. In README preview it's quite wide.

- Local GPU workstation
- Kubernetes cluster
- Cloud accounts ([12 clouds supported](https://skypilot.readthedocs.io/en/latest/getting-started/installation.html))

SkyPilot will be used as the unified framework to launch serving on any (or multiple) infra that you bring.

## Serving Llama 3.1 on your infra

We will first test the model on a GPU dev node, then package it for deployment using SkyPilot.

### Step 0: Bring your infra

Install SkyPilot on your local machine:

```bash
pip install 'skypilot-nightly[all]'
```

Pick one of the following depending on what infra you want to run Llama 3.1 on:

**If your local machine is a GPU node**: use this command to up a lightweight kubernetes cluster:

```bash
sky local up
```

**If you have a Kubernetes GPU cluster** (e.g., on-prem, EKS / GKE / AKS / ...):

```bash
# Should show Enabled if you have ~/.kube/config set up.
sky check kubernetes
```

**If you want to use clouds** (e.g., reserved instances): 12+ clouds are supported:

```bash
sky check
```

See [docs](https://skypilot.readthedocs.io/en/latest/getting-started/installation.html) for details.

### Step 1: Get a GPU dev node (pod or VM)

> > **Tip:** Skip directly to Step 3 to get the SkyPilot YAML to deploy Llama 3.1 on your infra.

Reviewer: Wdym? I guess this was supposed to say "If you simply want the final deployment YAML, ..."?

Reviewer: Can also link to Step 3.

- Or, SSH into it with `ssh llama`

### Step 2: Inside the dev node, test serving

Once logged in, run the following to install vLLM and run it (which automatically pulls the model weights from HuggingFace):
```bash
pip install vllm==0.5.3.post1 huggingface

# Paste your HuggingFace token to get access to Meta Llama repos:
# https://huggingface.co/collections/meta-llama/llama-31-669fc079a0c406a149a5738f
huggingface-cli login
```

We are now ready to start serving.  If you have N=8 GPUs
```bash
vllm serve meta-llama/Meta-Llama-3.1-8B-Instruct --tensor-parallel-size 8
```
Change the `--tensor-parallel-size` to the number of GPUs you have.

Tip: available model names can be found [here](https://huggingface.co/collections/meta-llama/llama-31-669fc079a0c406a149a5738f) and below.
- Pretrained:
  - Meta-Llama-3.1-8B
  - Meta-Llama-3.1-70B
  - Meta-Llama-3.1-405B-FP8
- Instruction tuned:
  - Meta-Llama-3.1-8B-Instruct
  - Meta-Llama-3.1-70B-Instruct
  - Meta-Llama-3.1-405B-Instruct-FP8

The full precision 405B model Meta-Llama-3.1-405B requires multi-node inference and is work in progress - join the [SkyPilot community Slack](https://slack.skypilot.co/) for discussions.

> If you are wondering what GPU you need for each model, here is the compatibility matrix (applies to both pretrained and instruction tuned models):

Reviewer: This table is pretty useful. How about putting it into its own section before Step 0? e.g., "What hardware to use for each Llama 3.1 model"?

# Serve Llama 3.1 on Your Own Infrastructure

<p align="center">
<img src="https://i.imgur.com/kQGzHI6.png" alt="Llama-3.1 on SkyPilot" style="width: 70%;">
</p>

On July 23, 2024, Meta AI released the [Llama 3.1 model family](https://ai.meta.com/blog/meta-llama-3-1/), including a 405B parameter model in both base model and instruction-tuned forms.

Llama 3.1 405B became the most capable open LLM model to date. This is **the first time an open LLM closely rivals state-of-the-art proprietary models** like GPT-4o and Claude 3.5 Sonnet.

This guide walks through how to serve Llama 3.1 models **completely on your infrastructure** (cluster or cloud VPC). Supported infra:

- Local GPU workstation
- Kubernetes cluster
- Cloud accounts ([12 clouds supported](https://skypilot.readthedocs.io/en/latest/getting-started/installation.html))

SkyPilot will be used as the unified framework to launch serving on any (or multiple) infra that you bring.

## Serving Llama 3.1 on your infra

> We will first test the model on a GPU dev node, then package it for deployment using SkyPilot.

Reviewer 2: Can we have highlighted sentence for the complete deployment YAML so people can directly jump to that section? 
```suggestion
We offer a step-by-step guide for how to use SkyPilot to test a new model on a GPU dev node, and then package it for deployment using SkyPilot. **For the complete deployment guide of Llama 3.1, see [Step 3: Package and deploy using SkyPilot](#Step-3-Package-and-deploy-using-SkyPilot)
```
